# "Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis for Ecommerce Product Reviews" 

Researchers, from last few years, begun to study Sentiment Analysis. Sentiment Analysis
(also known as Opinion Mining) enables to study people’s sentiment, opinion, emotions
and behaviour with respect to some entities (product, service, people, event and so on).
The following dissertation aims to deeply describe Text Mining and Sentiment Analysis
scope and techniques widespread to perform it, underlining the crucial role they play in
many research fields nowadays. In presenting the topic, it has been put particular attention
on finest-grained level: the Aspect Level Sentiment Analysis. In order to demonstrate
concepts exposed, it has been performed an analysis on Ecommerce Product Reviews in
order to practically demonstrate concepts.
The first chapter is focused on the Sentiment Analysis strict definition and Opinion
Mining Problem. In order to claim how Opinion Mining Problem could be solved, there
are spelt out factors involved (opinion, sentiment, entity, time and opinion holder) and
computation levels at which it can be performed (Document Level, Sentence Level and
Aspect Level). The first chapter ends focusing on the Aspect-level Sentiment Analysis,
that is the core of the second chapter and of the entire dissertation. The Aspect-Level
Sentiment Analysis tasks, basing on aim pursued and data to analyse, could be related to
Aspect (or term) Extraction, Entity Extraction or Aspect-Entity Extraction.
As anticipated, the second chapter spells out Aspect-level Sentiment Analysis and model
categories to perform it, which differ for many factors: computational time, size of the
dataset, type of data, aim to pursue and grade of automated processes involved. Categories
gather Language Rule Models, Sequential Models, Topic Methods, Deep Learning
Methods and Hybrid Methods. The chapter deeply delineates each category providing
advantages and disadvantages of models belong to each category and there are compare
two models belonging to two categories: the Conditional Random Fields Model (CRF)
belonging to the Sequential Models category and the Bidirectional Gated Recurrent Units
Model (Bi-GRU) belonging to the Deep Learning Models Category. The comparison
shows that using deep learning models is more efficient than using the other category
models, thanks to the possibility to automatize processes in the first case. In the final part
of the second chapter it is introduced the combination of the two models, deriving the so
called Bi-GRU-CRF Model. The Bi-GRU-CRF Model is an hybrid model that exploit the advantages of Bi-GRU Model for the first aspect extraction phase and the advantages of
the CRF model for the second phase devoted to sentiment classification.
Finally, the third chapter bears to practically demonstrate formulas and concepts
introduced in the previous chapters. To reach the aim, it has been carried out an
experiment on Amazon Product Reviews in Python. After data cleaning and pre-
processing activities, it has been trained the Bi-GRU Model and carried out predictions.
Bi-GRU Training, test and prediction phases have been compared with another Neural
Network Model, the Bidirectional Long Short Term Memory Model (Bi-LSTM).
Comparing the two models output a very interesting insight: accuracy of the model is not
enough to say that a model performs better than another one.
